*This is a draft manifesto for http://opencompany.biz/ to be ratified at
https://github.com/timothyfcook/opencompany.biz/issues/5.*

*<b>Intro:</b> Something about how society is bigger now than it used to be and
it's time to tweak and evolve to deal with new realities.*

[I'm not sure this is the right metaphor, but ...] On February 1, 2003, the
Space Shuttle Columbia tragically burned up on reentry, killing seven crew
members. The resulting investigation determined that a meter-long piece of
foam had come loose during lift-off and struck a wing. Under normal
circumstances, this wouldn't be a problem. At Mach 2.46, the foam punched a 20
cm hole in the wing.  Under normal circumstances, this wouldn't be a problem.
During reentry two weeks later, this 20 cm hole was enough to allow hot gases
to start ripping the wing apart, eventually disintegrating the shuttle.

Human society is no longer operating under "normal circumstances," and
seemingly innocuous problems and inefficiencies have the capacity ....

As society scales, ...

This manifesto is our attempt to address inadequacies in the way humans
currently organize themselves to do work together. The problems are:

 - Corporate anonymity encourages sociopathic behavior.

 - Work is plentiful, but jobs are scarce.


## Three Principles

Rules are made to be broken. Open companies are deliberately not defined
legally nor are they centrally certified, because legal definitions and central
certification can only establish a lower bound, which then becomes a
battlefield for a loopholes arms race. We want to reach for an asymptotic upper
bound.

Any entity may advertise itself as an open company. By accepting the "open
company" label for ourselves, we invite the public to constantly scrutinize
us—as we try to scrutinize ourselves—according to three general principles.
Each of us has our own understanding of how these principles apply to our
company, and we leave it to the court of public opinion whether any one of us
lives up to the name, "open company."

### 1. Share as much as possible.

An open company develops all of its products publicly, and freely shares all of
its intellectual property. Any software it writes is open source. It publishes
as much financial and other data as it can without compromising customer
privacy. All employees of the company are publicly listed along with their
level of access to private company information and private customer data.


### 2. Charge as little as possible.

An open company tries to charge as little for
its products and services as possible. Price to cost, that is, instead of to
value.


### 3. Employ everyone.

> The world needs people who see something that needs to be done and start to
> do it, without permission or advice. They just start doing it. -- Wendell
> Berry


## What about ... ?

An open company clearly differs from a **traditional** company in that an open
company maximizes instead of minimizes transparency, prices to cost instead of
value, and hires selectively.

An open company differs from a **cooperative** in that the resources of the open
company are developed for the benefit of society as a whole, and not just the
mutual benefit of the members of the cooperative. An open company in which the
formal employees shared legal ownership might technically be an open
cooperative.

An open company differs from a **non-profit** organization in that an open
company is not registered as a charity with a government, and does not itself
accept donations. An open company also does not have a paid staff, as most
non-profits do in practice. From the open company's point of view, whether and
how its employees receive money and for what, is undefined.

An open company differs from an **open source project** in that an open company
is a formal legal entity, and needn't be about software.

An open company differs from a **B Corporation** in that an open company is not
centrally certified.
